Welcome to the introduction to the software development life cycle.
After watching this video, you will be able to
describe what the software development life cycle is,
explain its history, and
discuss some key advantages of using it.
The Software Development Life Cycle, known as the SDLC,
is a systematic process to develop high-quality software in a predictable timeframe and budget.
The goal of the SDLC is to produce software that meets a client’s business requirements.
The SDLC defines phases of the software development process that encompass their own process and
deliverables.
It is a cycle of planning, design, and development that can be implemented as an iterative approach
to software development.
Adherence to the SDLC minimizes risks and costs to the development of high-quality,
deployable software.
The software development life cycle began to take shape in the mid-1960s as software
development began to necessitate a more detailed approach because of its growing complexity.
The SDLC led to a more deliberate approach as large corporations needed to manage complex
business systems requiring heavy computational resources.
In its initial conception, it used what is called the “waterfall method” to manage
projects where the development of software follows a linear pattern through discrete
stages.
The SDLC has since been adapted, however, to more iterative methods in response to addressing
customer needs and shifting requirements.
Waterfall and other approaches to software development will be discussed in another lesson.
There are some key advantages for businesses in following the SDLC.
The first advantage is that it gives development teams a process to follow rather than using
an ad hoc approach to improve efficiency and reduce risks.
Secondly, there are discrete phases to the SDLC.
Each phase is well defined so that team members know what they should be working on and when.
The phases of the SDLC will be discussed in another video.
Because of the well-defined phases, it facilitates communication between the customer, other
stakeholders, and the development team.
The SDLC offers an overview of the process, so stakeholders know where they fit in to
that process.
Also, since each phase is discrete, cross-domain teams know when they have completed their
tasks and when development can move to the next phase.
The SDLC provides room for iteration where, at the end of a cycle, the process can circle
back to incorporate additional requirements as needed.
Problem solving is incorporated early in the cycle so problems are addressed in a timely
fashion and can be addressed in the design phase rather than during coding.
Finally, each team member has a well-defined role which reduces conflict and overlapping
responsibilities.
In this video you learned that
the SDLC provides a systematic process for software development.
Its initial development in the 60s and 70s was driven by the need for a systematic approach
because of the growing complexity of software.
Key advantages of the SDLC include:
A roadmap to the software development process, helping to reduce risk and improve efficiency,
Increased communication between the team and stakeholders,
Clearly defined and understood responsibilities for each team member, and
The ability to be used iteratively, allowing for changing requirements.