Welcome to Insiders' Viewpoints: Teamwork in Software Engineering.
In this video, we will hear from experts discussing how teamwork is important in software development,
and how teams work together.
Yeah, so teamwork is very, very important in the world of software development.
As a software engineer, you're not just going to be sitting at your desk coding all day.
One of the most important aspects of working on a team or on an engineering team is communication,
and knowing how to collaborate and speak with your team members about the code you've written,
especially if you're going to a UX designer, and say, Hey, here's what I can do.
And your spec is a bit off.
Can we massage your your specs a bit just so we can meet the code coding requirements.
Incredibly important, I while I think it's possible for a single person to engineer and
deploy and run software, I, I think doing it as a team is both more impactful and gets
you more potential to do bigger and greater things, I think it's also just a more fulfilling
process, when you're when you're, you're building something with a group of individuals, I think,
you know, with without the support structure, it's hard to build something and support it
and maintain it just by yourself.
So teamwork, to me, is essential, because we're talking to each other all day.
And we're not only talking to our tech leads or senior engineer, we're talking to product
managers, we're talking to UX designers, we're talking to business analysts, we're talking
to data analysts, and so on and so forth.
You have the support system, you have diversity of opinions and perspectives in terms of how
you go about building it, it's more satisfying, you kind of can take larger risks, because
you're, you're in it together, and you're there to support each other, I think the celebration
of of a job well done is is a lot more, you know, it's a lot more fulfilling when you're
when you're doing that with someone else.
But I think it just gives you both kind of a larger range of scope and a larger sort
of risk portfolio, if you will, and you're able to, I think just, you know, get a lot
more done a lot more checks and balances and really gives you you know, less likely, there's
a less likely chance that you're gonna miss something, or you're gonna make a mistake,
there's a lot of a lot of support there.
And so every project I've worked on has had at least three other people that I have needed
to communicate with and support to be a reliable resource for them to go to them for questions.
Like I always have to be talking to somebody about something.
So teamwork is crucial.
Like, you can't, you can't work in an isolated silo forever, at some point, you have to talk
to someone else.
Building a project product takes a lot of people, a lot of us come together to make
a whole and to get the product shipped to production so our users can use it.
And so teamwork is imperative.