Welcome to software engineering!
Are you interested in learning about software engineering?
Does finding out more about the software building process appeal to you?
Would you like to get more information about software development?
Does learning about the basics of programming interest you?
Would you like to know more about software architecture and design?
Have you ever wondered what the job prospects are like for a software engineer?
If so, this course is for you!
According to the most recent US Bureau of Labor Statistics report about 1,850,000
software engineer type jobs are posted annually in the US alone,
and job growth in the industry is projected to increase 22 percent through 2030,
At the time of this course publication, the median US software developer specialist salary
is 110,140 US dollars annually, and per hour pay is almost $53 US dollars.
Software engineering jobs are also a great way to
start on your path to a high-paying career in information technology.
This course has three instructors: Rav Ahuja, Bethany Hudnutt, and Lin Joyner.
Rav is a Global Program Director at IBM and the architect for several IBM Professional
Certificates. Bethany is an Instructional Designer at Skill-Up Technologies. And,
Lin is also an Instructional Designer at Skill-Up Technologies.
So, what’s in this course? It’s divided into five modules:
The Software Development Lifecycle
Introduction to Software Development
Basics of Programming
Software Architecture, Design, and Patterns
And Job Opportunities and Skillsets in Software Engineering
And when you complete this course, you’ll be able to
Describe software engineering and approaches to software development.
Identify software development tools and technologies,
Compare different types of programming languages and recognize basic programming constructs,
Outline approaches to application and deployment architectures,
And review the skills required in software
engineering and describe the career options it provides.
During this course, you will learn through:
guided instructional videos that walk you through key concepts, with essential need-to-know facts.
interactive exercises to reinforce what you’ve learned in videos,
insider viewpoints that enrich your understanding of IT support work.
practice assessments to help you gauge your knowledge, and,
finally, graded assessments to prove what you’ve learned.
Upon successful completion of this course,
you’ll earn a shareable badge and certificate that you can show to prospective employers.
We’re here to support your success.
If you have any questions for the course staff or
if you want to connect with your peers in this course,
Please feel free to post on the course discussion forums.
We’re excited you’re here. So, let’s get started!