Welcome to Meet the Experts.
In this course, you will learn from several experts in various roles, who will provide
their insights and perspectives about Software Engineering.
Let’s meet these experts and learn about where they work and what they do.
Hi, my name is Kadesha.
And I currently work as a developer advocate at GitHub.
My name is Liseidy Bueno.
I'm a Software Engineer and I work at Blend, often known as Blend Labs.
My name is Tommy Young.
I'm a software engineer at Google.
My role is Uber Technical Lead overseeing publisher of video ads.
My name is Diane Panagiotopoulos.
I am a research and development engineer at Bandwidth.
And I work directly through Bandwidth, I am not self employed as like a contractor with
them.
Hi, my name is Zubin Pratap.
I'm a software engineer
and currently I'm a developer advocate at a Web3 startup
My name is Daniel Rudnitski, and I'm a software engineer at IBM.
My name is James Reeve and I'm a full stack software engineer at IBM.
Hi my name is Rupinder and I work as a Chief Solutions Architect at Skillup Technologies.
Hello, everyone, my name is Upkar Lidder and I'm a developer advocate with IBM.
Hi, I'm Yann Stoneham.
I'm a solution architect at Smartronics.
Now, lets listen to some of these experts describe
a little more in detail about what they do.
Yes, so, a developer advocate is a software engineer
who enables developer to be successful with
a product.
That was a mouthful.
So, essentially, what that means is, for example, at GitHub, I create a lot of content.
So I will do blog posts, workshops, go to conferences to speak about GitHub, the product,
will also showcase developers in the open source community, and to like,
give publicity to the projects that they're working on.
And being an advocate means that I'm able to communicate deeply about technical concepts
in a way that's digestible for engineers across experience level to understand.
Before I was an advocate, I worked as a software engineer in the finance sector
for two years.
I spent a majority of my time coding, I primarily worked on the front end
of the application, using tools such as Git, Docker, GraphQL, React, JavaScript, and the
very few times I would go into the back end,
we use Node js on our back end to make changes and updates.
My experience as a software engineer, and also as a technical content creator, paved
the way for me to become a developer advocate at GitHub today.
I'm a software engineer right now.
I'm still pretty Junior.
So most of my tasks involve creating new features, fixing bugs, and addressing any customer concerns
that we have with, that they have with the current software.
Yeah, so, I work on a suite of products that are
they're targeted to large content creators, video publishers, customers, such as ESPN,
Disney, etc.
We basically have suites of tools to help them monetize their video content, help them
distribute it, help them target it appropriately, report on it, troubleshoot it, for across
all devices, all surfaces.
So it's kind of the full suite of products, starts with the user interfaces that their
sales teams and trafficking teams use to sell the ad space,
upload the creatives, the advertisements, and, you know, target them to their audiences
and contextually to the content that they're, that they create.
We offer reporting on that.
So, a lot of its performance and various other analytics, reach analytics, and so forth.
Previously, before this, I was a software engineer at Google.
And before that, I was a software engineer at a small startup.
But before that, for about over 15 years, I
was a corporate lawyer, and then a business
executive for a while and even had my own startup in the middle.
So yeah, very diverse background.
And I taught myself to code in my very late 30s.
When my startup started to fail, and I really needed to keep it going, and my tech co founder
quit.
So that's what I do.
That's who I am today.
I as a developer advocate, I not only write code, I also produce a lot of educational
content, and material that is useful for people to onboard onto Web3 and other technologies.
And my role is really to help connect the product team with the actual developer ecosystem.
Bring the two together through code content, education and community.